March newsletter (#1188)
writethedocs/www: docs/blog/newsletter-march-2020.rst

.. post:: March 05, 2020
   :tags: newsletter

######################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – March 2020
######################################

Hello everyone! It's your friendly neighbourhood newsletter team, here with the March edition.

> Our first bit of news: we're happy to announce the `results of last year's salary survey </surveys/salary-survey/2019/>`__! Openness is a core value of this community, so it's awesome to be able to present the anonymized data for your purusing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Our first bit of news: we're happy to announce the `results of last year's salary survey </surveys/salary-survey/2019/>`__! Openness is a core value of this community, so it's awesome to be able to present the anonymized data for your perusing.
```

On the conference side, it's super exciting to see the `roster of speakers for Portland </conf/portland/2020/news/announcing-speakers/#full-speaker-line-up>`__ announced a few weeks ago. Some seriously great talks to look forward to.

> We do know you'll have questions about whether the conference is going ahead. Currently, *we have no plans to cancel*. We will be watching the COVID-19 situation closely over the next few weeks, and taking advice from the Oregon health authorities and CDC as it comes, but currently everything is planned to go ahead as normal.

Reviewer 2: I'd like to get a short post up on the NA conf site as well about this and link to it this week. How about this verbiage? 

```suggestion
We wanted to also address the COVID-19 situation. Currently, *we have no plans to cancel* the Portland conference, but are planning to take additional precautions during the on-site events. We will be watching the situation closely over the next few weeks, and taking advice from the Oregon health authorities and United States CDC as it comes. We will assess the situation again next week and provide updates as the situation changes. 
```

Reviewer: :+1: to this. Maybe with a link to the blog tag for visibility of updates?

.. post:: March 05, 2020
   :tags: newsletter

######################################
Write the Docs Newsletter – March 2020
######################################

Hello everyone! March is here (already?!), and so is a fresh new edition of the WTD newsletter.

Firstly, announcing some news I know some of you have been waiting for. We're delighted that the `results of last year's salary survey </surveys/salary-survey/2019/>`__ are now live! Openness is a core value of this community, so it's great to be able to present the anonymized data for your perusing.

On the conference side, it's exciting to see the `awesome roster of speakers for Portland </conf/portland/2020/news/announcing-speakers/#full-speaker-line-up>`__ - some seriously great talks to look forward to.

> We do also want to address the situation with COVID-19. Currently, *we have no plans to cancel* the Portland conference, but are planning to take additional precautions during the on-site events. We'll be watching the situation closely over the next few weeks, and taking advice from the Oregon health authorities and United States CDC as it comes. We will assess the situation again next week and provide updates as the situation changes. 

Reviewer 3: It might be valuable to say where we're going to provide those updates. Like should I look in #announcements and #wtd-conferences? Expect an email? What channels should I be watching, you know.

Reviewer: Good idea. #1190 contains link to a the blog archive of covid-19 tag, which would do the trick.

Reviewer 2: We now have an official announcement to link to: https://www.writethedocs.org/conf/portland/2020/news/covid-19-update-01/

Author: Added link and reference to what we'll update.

> Moving swiftly on - it's been a month of great conversations on Slack, so let's head on to our stories.

Author: I am really struggling with this segue from "serious pandemic" to "some nice stories!". Is this too light-hearted?

Reviewer 4: I don't think it's too lighthearted. One idea -- you could kind of move the segue to the beginning of the COVID-19 paragraph. Something like...

Before we get to this month's stories, we do also want to address...

Then maybe you could just go straight from "...as the situation changes." to the first story. I guess that would be just as abrupt, but it might help avoid any interpretation of lightheartedness in terms of how seriously WTD is taking the COVID-19 situation.

Author: I tried that but then had a similar problem with how I pitched the opener. If the current situation feels okay to you, then I think I'll stick with this - I just wanted to make sure I got a second opinion.

Reviewer: You could say something like 

> Getting back to more usual documentation related topics

or similar

- Write your cover letter and application to focus on the requirements that you *do* fit. You can address any gaps between your experience and the advert during the interview. If you're worried that applying when you don't meet all requirements is a waste of time, instead think of it as building experience talking about your skills and talents.
- Treat job listings as a wish list, not a list of requirements that you must match exactly. A `2014 Harvard Buisness Review article <https://hbr.org/2014/08/why-women-dont-apply-for-jobs-unless-theyre-100-qualified>`_ described how this assumption affects women in particular, and tools like `Shatter <https://www.shatter.live/>`_ aim to help women apply to more jobs and present themselves for leadership roles. "Apply even if you don't think you fit 100% of the requirements" is good advice for anyone. As one documentarian pointed out, if you qualify for 70% of the requirements, consider yourself a great candidate. Another put it this way: it's not your job to turn yourself down!

> No matter what, remember that the types of jobs open are always changing, so don't get discouraged! There's plenty of help available on Slack community, especially #career-advice and #job-posts-only; and don't forget the `Write the Docs job board <https://jobs.writethedocs.org/>`_.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
No matter what, remember that the types of jobs open are always changing, so don't get discouraged! There's plenty of help available in our Slack community, especially #career-advice and #job-posts-only; and don't forget the `Write the Docs job board <https://jobs.writethedocs.org/>`_.
```

> No matter what, remember that the types of jobs open are always changing, so don't get discouraged! There's plenty of help available on Slack community, especially #career-advice and #job-posts-only; and don't forget the `Write the Docs job board <https://jobs.writethedocs.org/>`_.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
No matter what, remember that the types of jobs open are always changing, so don't get discouraged! There's plenty of help available on Slack community, especially in #career-advice and #job-posts-only; and don't forget the `Write the Docs job board <https://jobs.writethedocs.org/>`_.
```

* Who has the time?

Does your organization create release notes for the documentation? How has it been going? Come chat about it in Slack!

-------------------------
Some discussions on style
-------------------------

There's often great discussion about particular points of style and style guides going on in #general. Here's a summary of the high points:

Firstly on *resources about and approaches to Global English*. `The Global English Style Guide <https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/the-global-english/9781599946573/>`_ from O'Reilly was recommended, plus there's a `relevant section of The Microsoft Writing Style Guide <https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/style-guide/global-communications/>`_. And it's not strictly about Global English, but there's a decent section on global communications in `The ASD Simplified Technical English dictionary <http://www.asd-ste100.org/index.html>`_. That was originally intended for a different industry (aviation), but still has helpful pointers.

> Next up, *how we feel about "e.g.", "i.e.", and other Latinisms*. A beleaguered poster who uses e.g. and i.e. asked the community whether they were alone in their practice. Most replies advocated against these abbreviations: they're often misused, and many feel their meaning isn't clear to a general audience. Plenty of the common software docs style guides agree. But the other side of the argument: if you can use them appropriately, TODO.

Reviewer 4: Should there be something to finish this sentence where `TODO` is now?
